README.md, before:

Flask-Events
===============

Flask middleware to help log with structured event logging to multiple outlets (logfmt, honeycomb, etc).

This project was forked from [Flask-Canonical](https://github.com/megacool/flask-canonical/) to
enable multiple outlets. If you only need a single logfmt outlet, flask-canonical is probably all
you need.


Installation
------------

    $ pip install flask-events


Using it
--------

General usage with only a logfmt outlet requires nothing more than calling `init_app` or initiating
the logger with the app directly:

```python
from flask import Flask
from flask_events import Events

app = Flask(__name__)
events = Events(app)

@app.route('/')
def main():
    events.add('key', 'value')
    return 'Hello, world!'
```

It logs to a logger called `<app-name>.canonical`, configure your logging to forward this to syslog or a log file or stdout however you like:

    key=value fwd=127.0.0.1 method=GET path=/ status=200 request_user_agent=curl/7.54.0 request_total=0.003s

To also include a Honeycomb outlet, set `EVENTS_HONEYCOMB_KEY` in the app config. It will by default write to a dataset named after the app, or you can set a custom dataset name by setting `EVENTS_HONEYCOMB_DATASET`.

If you're using SQLAlchemy query timing from the database is tracked automatically.

There is a sample app in `sample_app.py` you can inspect and fire up if you want to play around and learn how it works.


Data included by default
------------------------

| Data | Sample | Notes |
| ---- | ------ | ----- |
| fwd  | 127.0.0.1 | |
| method | GET | |
| path | /some/path?key=val | |
| status | 404 | |
| request_user_agent | curl/7.38.0 | |
| request_total | 0.23s | |
| database_query_time | 0.18s | Only if sqlalchemy is used. The total time spent on executing db queries (excluding commit) |
| database_executes | 3 | Only if sqlalchemy is used. How many individual execute statements were sent to the database. Proxy for number of roundtrips. |
| error | IndexError | Only if the request fails with an uncaught exception. |
| error_msg | list index out of range | Only if the request fails with an uncaught exception. |
| request_id | f100ded | If the X-Request-ID HTTP header was present. |
| hostname | example.com | libhoney outlet only, since most logging setups automatically includes this. This is the host that handled the request. |


Development
-----------

    $ ./configure
    $ ./test

Commit message:

Automatically include version and commit on Heroku

README.md, after:

Flask-Events
===============

Flask middleware to help log with structured event logging to multiple outlets (logfmt, honeycomb, etc).

This project was forked from [Flask-Canonical](https://github.com/megacool/flask-canonical/) to
enable multiple outlets. If you only need a single logfmt outlet, flask-canonical is probably all
you need.


Installation
------------

    $ pip install flask-events


Using it
--------

General usage with only a logfmt outlet requires nothing more than calling `init_app` or initiating
the logger with the app directly:

```python
from flask import Flask
from flask_events import Events

app = Flask(__name__)
events = Events(app)

@app.route('/')
def main():
    events.add('key', 'value')
    return 'Hello, world!'
```

It logs to a logger called `<app-name>.canonical`, configure your logging to forward this to syslog or a log file or stdout however you like:

    key=value fwd=127.0.0.1 method=GET path=/ status=200 request_user_agent=curl/7.54.0 request_total=0.003s

To also include a Honeycomb outlet, set `EVENTS_HONEYCOMB_KEY` in the app config. It will by default write to a dataset named after the app, or you can set a custom dataset name by setting `EVENTS_HONEYCOMB_DATASET`.

If you're using SQLAlchemy query timing from the database is tracked automatically.

There is a sample app in `sample_app.py` you can inspect and fire up if you want to play around and learn how it works.


Data included by default
------------------------

| Data | Sample | Notes |
| ---- | ------ | ----- |
| fwd  | 127.0.0.1 | |
| method | GET | |
| path | /some/path?key=val | |
| status | 404 | |
| request_user_agent | curl/7.38.0 | |
| request_total | 0.23s | |
| database_query_time | 0.18s | Only if sqlalchemy is used. The total time spent on executing db queries (excluding commit) |
| database_executes | 3 | Only if sqlalchemy is used. How many individual execute statements were sent to the database. Proxy for number of roundtrips. |
| error | IndexError | Only if the request fails with an uncaught exception. |
| error_msg | list index out of range | Only if the request fails with an uncaught exception. |
| request_id | f100ded | If the X-Request-ID HTTP header was present. |
| hostname | example.com | libhoney outlet only, since most logging setups automatically includes this. This is the host that handled the request. |
| release_version | v34 | If running on Heroku and the `runtime-dyno-metadata` labs feature is enabled. This is the version of your app. |
| slug_commit | 5ca1ab1e | If running on Heroku and the `runtime-dyno-metadata` labs feature is enabled, and the slug was built from a git commit. |


Development
-----------

    $ ./configure
    $ ./test
